In this tutorial, we will learn how to dynamically create NPC characters in Game Mode.
Let's start by creating a data structure that will store all of the game's settings.
As we move through this section, we will supplement it.
Copy the body of the structure. Let's call it FGameData.
The first parameter we need is the number of players.
The property category will be Game.
The variable type will be an integer - int32. Let's call the variable PlayersNum.
By default, let there be two players: the character we control, and also one NPC.
Let's add some meta information. Let's limit this parameter from 1 to 100. That is, you can also play without bots
and we definitely won't need more than 100 characters. Go to the header file game mode. We connect STUCoreTypes.
We will not spawn the characters themselves, but their controllers. We make a forward declaration of the AIController class.
The character calls destroy if the character dies. The controllers are not removed from the scene
and, as we will see later, they will be responsible for character respawning, so the controller spawning approach
is preferable. We declare a property that will store our controller class.
Let's use the TSubclassOf <> template. The template parameter will be AIController and named property AIControllerClass.
The next property will hold our GameData structure.
Let's go to GameModeBase and search for a function called StartPlay.
This function is called before the BeginPlay of the game mode class and all other actors.
In this function, we will initialize all the necessary data for our game and also spawn NPC characters.
We override this function in our game mode class.
And additionally, in the private section, create a function called SpawnBots.
The name speaks for itself. The spawn of our controllers will take place in it.
Go to the .cpp file and create a body for each of the functions.
Don't forget about calling the base class function using the Super keyword.
And here we will also call the SpawnBots function. Let's spawn the bots, we need a pointer to the world,
so let's check right away that GetWorld returns a non-null pointer. It is necessary to spawn as many
bots as we specified in the GameData structure. Create a for loop from 0 to GameData.PlayersNum - 1
We add -1 because besides the bots we have our own character.
We need an additional variable of the FActorSpawnParameters type.
In it, we will define how collisions should be handled when our players spawn. For this purpose,
there is a field in the structure called SpawnCollisionHandlingOverride.
The field is an enum, the elements of which determine how collisions will be handled. Let's choose the AlwaysSpawn option,
that is, always spawn and spawn the controller directly. We use the SpawnActor function.
Pass AIController as a template parameter.
The first argument is the controller class in our property, and the second argument is the SpawnInfo structure.
We compile the project. We have a compilation error. I forgot to include the AIController header file. We connect it.
Run it again. Open the game mode blueprint class.
Install AIController. Also, let's change the number of players let it be 4.
Compile. Let's remove from the scene all the AICharacters that we added in the last section.
We start. We are alone on stage. Go to the object tree on the right and search for controllers.
There are four controllers on the scene, three of which we spawned in our loop, and the character's controller was
spawned in game mode on its own. Now let's see how we spawn the characters for each of the AI ​​controllers.
The SpawnActor function returns a pointer to the spawned actor. Therefore, we can create a
local variable called STUAIController and assign this pointer to it.
The function in game mode that creates the pawn is called restart player, it takes one parameter, the base controller class.
We transfer to it the controller that was spawned. Let's move on to this function.
Let's take a quick look at what's going on. In this function, there is a point in space where you want to spawn the pawn.
This is done using the FindPlayerStart function. We will return to this a little later.
After that, the RestartPlayerAtPlayerStart function is called. It is checked whether the pawn exists on the controller,
if it does not exist, then the GetDefaultPawnClassForController function is called. This function returns the pawn class.
And after that, the pawn is set to the controller, which is returned by
the SpawnDefaultPawnFor function. It defines the transformation with which to spawn the pawn.
and calls the SpawnDefaultPawnAtTransform function. Here, the SpawnActor function is already specifically called
with class parameters, transformation and also SpawnInfo. Briefly ran through some of the functions of the GameModeBase class.
Doing this is useful for a deeper understanding of the engine. We compile the project.
We start the game. Let's see what happens. Our camera ended up somewhere inside the character.
Click eject. We fly off with the camera and see that all four characters are on the stage,
but they spawned at one point. All this time on stage we had a special actor
called PlayerStart. With the help of actors of this type in game mode, the starting point for the
new pawn is calculated. We can duplicate PlayerStart and let's create, for example, 5 pieces. We start the game.
Game mode chose the appropriate PlayerStart for each character and spawned them with the desired transformations.
Let's go to the object tree. Let's enter character and see that it was not AICharacter but BaseCharacter
that was actually spawned. Let's see why this happened and how to fix it.
Let's go once again to the base game mode class in the restart player function. Next, RestartPlayerAtPlayerStart is called.
The function that returns the pawn class to be spawned is called GetDefaultPawnClassForController.
Let's find this function in the file. So what's going on here? We are not interested in the code under the macro.
Only one thing happens here - the DefaultPawnClass is returned,
that is, the class of our BaseSTUCharacter. This explains why AI Character was not spawned.
This function can be overridden. Let's see how to do this and also noticed that it has
an implementation added to its name through underscores. Go to the header file game mode.
We find this function in the .h file. We pay attention to the UFUNCTION specifier called BlueprintNativeEvent.
If you open the function specifiers section of the documentation, you can see what this specifier means.
Functions of this type can be overridden in blueprint.
It can also be done in C ++, you need to add the end implementation.
And (thanks to automatic code generation in the UE) if there is no blueprint function, then this
function will be called with implementation. Let's override this function in our game mode class.
Add override. Add implementation and also virtual. We create the body of the function.
Add a property in the header file, in which we will specify the AICharacter class for the spawn.
As a parameter for TSubclassOf, we pass the base class APawn and name the property AIPawnClass.
The function has a controller parameter and we can check whether this controller is an
AI controller or a Player controller. And depending on this, issue the required class for pawn.
We check that the pointer is non-zero and call the IsA <> template function.
We pass the AI ​​controller into it. If this class is an AI controller, then return AIPawnClass.
Otherwise, we can return DefaultPawnClass, or just call the parent function.
We compile the project.
Open the game mode blueprint. Set the AIPawnClass property, select BP_STUAICharacter. Compile. We start the game.
Shooting started, it was immediately clear that the AICharacter spawned. This concludes this lesson.